---
layout: post
title:  "Implementing Disqus Comments in Jekyll"
date:   2019-11-14 00:17:59 -0600
categories: disqus
image: /assets/og-david.jpg
---
Jekyll is a framework for generating _static_ pages. User input and comments is _not_ static content, so what to do? Well, we may still _embed_ dynamic content, and that's what the assignment asked us to do:

> Visitors should be able to comment on your posts (for instance you could use Disqus)

The installation of Jekyll with the "minima" theme included code for implementing Disqus. I found it needed some modification still.

The site's `post.html` layout file includes a reference to a template implementing the [Disqus](https://disqus.com/){:target="_blank"} platform in an `iframe` on the page, on condition that a `disqus.shortname` variable be defined in `_config.yml`. The template `disqus_comments.html` implements Disqus' provided sample code on condition that the page variable `page.comments` not be `false`, enabling simple _per page_ control of comments.

Setting up Disqus was still a bit of a puzzle, which could be traced back to the discrepancy between making a very "capable" framework (Jekyll) for a very simple task (simple, static web pages). There is suddenly the need to know how Jekyll variables work – syntactically and across pages and sites. Not mentioning the fact that the `_config.yml` needs to be rebooted for changes to take effect, and not knowing whether it's supposed to be working on localhost or not. _It does_, even without whitelisting in Disqus advaced settings, but you'll keep pushing any changes to both dev and production repositories while debugging…

Truth be told though, this is all a first-time problem. Subsequent implementations of both Jekyll and Disqus would have you know most of what you need.

The result should be visible below.
